I've been thinking about whether there is a genre for the 'kind of thing we're talking about'. 
I've come up with a lot of things that 'it' is not – not advertising, not reviewing, not reproducing, not digital art, and somehow, also, not quite performance. 
The closest analogy seems to be the literary essay, something which takes a defined object as its starting point (a cultural product, an event, an idea) and in performing some kind of analysis, creates something new. I think I'm probably repeating things Mary and Maddy have thought about/written, but it feels useful to say that this project might be about using digital technology to compose performance essays. 

I've been reading Adorno's 'Essay as Form' (http://artsites.ucsc.edu/faculty/gustafson/film%20223/Adorno-The%20Essay%20As%20Form.pdf):

'The essay … does not permit its domain to be prescribed. Instead of achieving something scientifically, or creating something artistically, the effort of the essay reflects a childlike freedom that
catches fire, without scruple, on what others have already done. The essay mirrors what is loved and hated instead of presenting the intellect, on the model of a boundless work ethic, as creatio ex nihilo. Luck and play are essential to the essay. It does not begin with Adam and Eve
but with what it wants to discuss; it says what is at issue and stops where it feels itself complete -not where nothing is left to say.'

'[The essay] revolts above all against the doctrine - deeply rooted since Plato -that the changing and ephemeral is unworthy of philosophy; against that ancient injustice toward the transitory,
by which it is once more anathematized, conceptually. The essay shys away from the violence of dogma, from the notion that the result of abstraction, the temporally invariable concept indifferent to
the individual phenomenon grasped by it, deserves ontological dignity. The delusion that the ordo idearum (order of ideas) should be the ordo rerum (order of things) is based on the insinuation that the mediated is unmediated. Just as little as a simple fact can be thought without a concept,
because to think it always already means to conceptualize it, it is equally impossible to think the purest concept without reference to the factual.'

[SB] I need essay practice and Adorno scares me. 
But I did find solace in his notion that "the bad essay chats about people instead of opening up the matter at hand; in this the essay form is somewhat complicitous." 
If that's the case, then the space of what I now think of as 'the digital' is the space of the bad essay, 
Where chat is precisely the medium for opening upthe matter at hand, 
A space where 'content' is a just an infinitely substituable social object, token or 
Talisman that facilitates what used to be called gossip or more recently, banter,
And is elevated in artworlds to status of 
Dialogue, encounter, exchange of conversation.
{"Poet Luke Wright said he no longer used the word banter" http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-england-norfolk-30234121} 
But is now labelled with anodyne word 'comment'. 
And I don't refer to any of these phenomena in any kind of pejorative sense.
They seem to me to be the noise to the essay's signal. 
So: bad essay. Like Bad Lieutenant or Bad Teacher...  //     

I've also been reading My 1980s and Other Essays by Wayne Koestenbaum.  
This collection brings together memoir, critical essays on art and literature, and also essays on the essayistic work of others – close aesthetic readings of some of the great North American essay writers of an earlier generation. 
Koestenbaum reads Susan Sontag, James Schuyler and others not for their 'ideas' per se, but for their techniques of expression, for the language they wield as they approach the work of others. 
It's a really lush meditation on the formal qualities of masterful essays, which also constitutes a compelling meta-argument on the inseparability of content and expression in the essay form.

Finally, I've been thinking about expanded essay practices, things like the video essay, which at this point is so incredibly sophisticated and developed (by people like Chris Marker, Harun Farocki, the Otolith Group, etc.), and also the performance essay work of Goat Island, and now the Every House Has a Door configuration. 

[SB] Maybe this is an example of a meta-kind of 'bad essay' in video form
Something probably entirely at odds with the post-structuralist style 
of a Marker or a Harocki
http://jonudell.net/udell/gems/umlaut/umlaut.html
For me, this is like a 'net' version of speeded-up building construction videos 
But rather more interesting 
In that the form allows one to see something that is normally consumed in a static form
(a Wikipedia entry) as 
Dynamic, being built, unbuilt, vandalized, rebuilt, defaced, expanded, shrunk, etc. 
And is very 'chatty'!
Chat may also relate to Open (rehearsal) Rooms
Places one enters in anticipation of seeing something made and unmade 
Of witnessing the alchemy of something like chat go to work on something called material
That will be shaped into something called art.
But never actually witnessing it.
Hoping for the speeded-up edit where I get to see 'it'
Actually happening. 
The 'it' is some kind of fundamental change or transformation.
A step-change from one state of matter to another state.
I think this is called a phase change in chemistry.
Water to ice or water to steam
Or, wow, ice to steam, bypassing water.
Wanted: devices for change visualization.
Unrelated thought: 
I'm wondering how 'native' digital forms
Like gadget 'unboxing' videos or videogame walkthroughs
Might be repurposed for critical-creative ends.//

[JL] I love this wikipedia video! 
And 'chat' is great and so is the 'bad essay'. I would be interested to develop some bad essay practice for sure. 
I love chatting, I can remember with vivid detail some of my best chats, these are mostly in-person chats, but that might be because I'm a little too old to have mastered gchat and I have no nostalgic affection for MSN.  
It's definitely not the case that the best chats yield the best material, though sometimes they do. 
There's more to be said about the relationship between 'chat' and 'material' but I need some more time (or more chatting?) to think about it//

On digital 'native' forms, I'm on a residency right now and one of the artists here uses computer animations and videogame walkthroughs in interesting ways: 
http://bonuslevels.net/sky-line.html
http://bonuslevels.net/memory-palace.html
http://bonuslevels.net/shiva-s-dreaming.html

Also, Alex Eisenberg has been working on a series of YouTube tutorials which I think are really great.
Playlist here: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLj3ZkLSOBL-l3a7HYolSZtqdWXa36Gi9r 

And finally, here is a project I worked on, an 'interactive documentary' that uses things like first-person perspective to re-approach a more straightforward documentary from the 1980s: http://89.lossur.es
(Minor equivocation on this, it's a work-in-progress, and not totally 'there' but I like parts of it a lot - the 'Stairs' section works particularly well, I think) //

As part of another project, I've been thinking about how something like a meal might be an essay – how serving food might also deliver an idea or a constellation of references. 
Mary's list of 'Live Art concerns' feels like a really useful starting point for thinking how digital contexts might serve the exploration of performance works in an expanded sense, so that the form of the expression also works to deal with that set of concerns.

[SB] Why do I find it hard to escape the gravitional pull of the idea that 'the live' as represented in things called performance work is a relic? In a good way...but a relic, still. Retaining an unquantifiable and unjustifed power. But still retaining it. //  

[JL] Hmm, is this related to your idea about digital 'content' as an 'an infinitely substituable social object, token or 
Talisman'? Is the live - maybe especially in the art world - an ideal (because efficient and cost-effective, or because of this 'unquantifiable and unjustified power') point of focus for coordinating chat, whether it's according to principle of a market or an ideology or a set of unnamed social conventions or drives? 

[MP] I had a good 'chat' with Annette from Coney today - one of those chats where you have a lot to say but nowhere to go with it, yet.
We were talkig about the digital space around a performance
How performance is one event in a stream of experiences
And in fact the most time-efficient, concentrated event, in terms of communication
(NB as I write I realise I've started to copy Simon's way of writing.  Short lines.
Easy to follow)
Coney have been working on a digital r&d project that combines live audiences and online audiences
One of the things they have discovered, she said, is that things take longer online
ie people take longer to respond online
Online, people have more to do, and more that they are doing
This interests me because I'm caught by the idea of attention - what kind of attention people bring to digital space, and what kind of attention you can expect, play with, interrupt etc. 
Also, in the never-never time of the internet - it will always be there, so you never have to use it now (I haven't got time to follow all the links above at the moment, but I resolve to later ...)
