(JL)Karen Christopher and Chris Goode are in residence at Roehampton this week, and as part of the residency they are having open hours from 11am until 5pm from Tuesday-Friday. I wasn't in yesterday, so today was the first day I've gone in during these open hours. I entered the room right as they were about to break and go get a sandwich. I asked how they were doing. Karen said she has a hard time not responding when someone comes in the room, even though she might want to just carry on with what she is doing. Chris said that he is 'either extraordinarily calm or extraordinarily stupid' and so he is less affected by people. 
(JL)I'm thinking about open rooms, and how things become and/or remain open, and whether a commitment to openness means that the resulting work is necessarily in some sense *about* openness as well. 
(JL)I've been thinking, as well about closed rooms. On a feminist listserve that I'm on, there has recently been some discussion about levels of privacy posts to the list should enjoy. Ground rules have been put in place that messages posted to the list should not be forwarded without the author's permission, and discussions that occur on the list should not be referenced in public. People post about senstive and difficult things, which is indeed the value of the list for a lot of people, so the decision has been taken we should attempt a level of privacy. This comment may in fact constitute a violation of the groundrules, I'm not sure.
(JL)Open rooms can also have obstacles. Working in this Github space, where the rules are unfamiliar, and the remit is undefined or emergent, the 'space' feels open but also like I might step on or in something I might prefer not to.

I wrote about open rooms but it was all lost!  Time has been taken away from me - I was writing about the incessant time of the internet v. the expansive time of a library, and of the rules of an open room, but it's all just memory now ....I have run out of time, I will have to try to remember and come back later
Have I found a door to this room? I'm still struggling to work out how to use this. 

(Who are all the 'I's here ...?)

One of the reasons I (Mary) am interested in digital space in relation to live art and writing, is because of the difference beetween them all.  I don't think there is an analogous space to an open room online - partly because of the nature of time (the incessant, 24 hour availability of things online, which makes them nagging and insistent and also always postponable) and partly because of the nature of togetherness (it is lonely here - it feels like we are all talking to ourselves, or, worse, to mmirrors). I wonder what  the real, online version of an open room would be? What kind of time would it occupy?  (How) would you know other people were there? Would it perhaps have a radically different feel?  Would it be - in the context of the rest of digital space - more like a closed room perhaps? A time-specific space?  An online event?
(JL)I think, though, that there are digital spaces that feel much more populated, and so less lonely, if not more 'open', than this space. That's the appeal of Twitter, I suppose: someone is always 'there'. I just had a conversation with Rajni Shah where she was advocating for the radical potential of Twitter, or at least certain Twitter users, specifically the writer Sara Ahmed. I've only ever used Twitter half-heartedly as a marketing tool, but I was totally convinced by Rajni's point.
(JL) Also, I hadn't thought about the need to identify myself until the question on line 9, and actually I wonder if it would be more interesting not to identify ourselves. I've put my initials, now, in front of lines I've written, but if others think anonymity has some excitment, I might delete those...
